okay so let me draw an analogy there and
you tell me what you think about this um
it's frequently the case that neoy
entrepreneurs who have created a product
believe that the fundamental issue at
hand is the product right it when when I
started selling things into the
marketplace I suffered from the delusion
that it was
85% product and you know 10%
Administration and 5% marketing and
sales and that was like exactly
backwards and so it sounds to me like a
similar issue here that you presumed
that except in the political realm you
presumed that if you had your policy
prepared you were already a credible
person that that would be the bulk of
the initial battle but what turned if
I've got you right what turned out to be
the case was a very sudden realization
that while you had to get in the
conversation at all and that sounds like
a sales and marketing problem to some
degree and this is I think why so many
candidates who are credible turn to
political Consultants so rapidly right
and and that often syns them so okay so
is that a reasonable analogy and you've
but you've you've put products in the
marketplace before and so in principle
you knew that on the commercial side so
well I would say something about this is
I I I agree with you on your analysis on
the commercial side what I would say is
that is on steroids in the political
side right right so even if you
transpose the commercial Instinct onto
politics you'd be missing it by by uh by
mile the other thing is I came from
industries that were a little bit
different I haven't really been in a
consumer products industry or in the
media industry I mean the industry that
I spent the most time in was developing
drugs for diseases that Pharma had
ignored systematically and that was an
area where look it's it's a regulated
process I saw from a front row seat how
broken institutions like the FDA really
are
but it's not an area where if you're
pre-commercial and everything that I did
was in the research and development
phase not in the commercial phase it
actually it as entrepreneurs go I
actually did not necessarily have that
same experience as many consumer
interfacing entrepreneurs so that may be
idiosyncratic to me and then I would say
even for Consumer interfacing
entrepreneurs and strive was a little
bit closer to that because that's that's
a that's a you know fund management
company that competes at Black Rock I
had some of experience it was nothing
close to what the importance is of that
is in politics is it was all about to
call it sales and marketing in some ways
undersells the problem because sales and
marketing is once you're once you're
there how much do you amplify how many
people hear your message whereas for me
at the early stages of the campaign and
as I think about the last year and even
some of the things that later came back
to become headwinds for me when I was a
you know front running or or whatever
top four top five candidate
were actually the path to getting there
sort of set me up for the difficulties
that I had later on but the first
challenge was not even selling or
marketing your message more effectively
it was literally like nobody would know
that I was running for US president even
though I was running for US president so
it was just getting on the map or being
heard in the first place I just talked
to Dean Phillips and his campaign
obviously came to an end for those of
you watching and listening Dean Phillips
was until recently run against Biden on
the Democrat side and he faced this
problem in Spades I think he probably
faced all the problems you faced plus
the additional problem was that he was
absolutely 100% shut out of the entire
Democrat apparatus people were literally
told that if they worked for him they
would never do anything politically
again in their life and then also he had
to face the same reaction from the
Legacy Media and so he didn't get it and
I don't think that he was attuned well
enough to the alternative media let's
say you know the podcast crowd and all
that to capitalize on that quickly plus
they tend to tilt more in the classic
liberal conservative Direction anyways
okay so you had to face this problem of
getting on the map at all so how did
that unfold so so one of the things I
did and this is where you know I took
good advice you were one of the early
people who offered a reflection on this
and you know I said what what's the
downside in trying it makes a lot of
sense to me is if the traditional media
is ignoring you go to the
non-traditional media as a way to reach
the people and so I adopted uh strategy
let's call it a maxim early in the
campaign which was the talk to everyone
and anyone's strategy okay left right
center cable news non-cable news print
media smalltime media local media
individuals walking on the street
recording it and putting it on social
media I wore a you know I'm wearing a
little camera or I'm wearing a little uh
what do you call it a little microphone
right now I wore a microphone pretty
much everywhere I went we just clip the
conversations and put it out now my
social media following was a lot smaller
than than it ended up being at the end
of The Campaign but still that was just
a way of putting out my message into the
world and what we started to notice was
you know most of those things would get
relatively small reach but in a few
instances there were a lot of
interactions where people actually began
to take interest to say wait a minute
that's an interaction of a kind that I
haven't seen before that's interesting
to me some of them were not necessarily
casting me in the most flattering light
I might not have looked good right just
even visually you know the things that I
would have said were sometimes a little
bit unscripted may not have been said as
eloquently as I might have prepared for
in a speech or a TV interview but that
was actually part of what made it
appealing and so that started to take
off I think allowed the campaign there
were a couple moments and then I got
called I happened to be in New York City
and they said do you want to come on uh
don lemon's show right because many
Republican candidates aren't going to go
on there so they thought they have a
republican candidate who's running why
don't you go ahead and go on Don lemon's
show we had a kind of interaction where
this man lost went haywire I had just
given a speech at the NRA meeting and he
picked on one particular thing that I
said which is a fact of history that
black Americans in the United States did
not get to enjoy their civil rights
until they actually had their second
amendment rights and the first anti-gun
laws that were passed in the United
States were designed to keep gun guns
out of the hands of black Americans and
that was part of a broader historical
Trend where even countries like China or
Iran or other countries around the world
that claim to offer the same Bill of
Rights that the US offers don't have a
second amendment and so Don Lemon and
and the funny thing happened actually I
thought this would be a bit of an aside
but I'll I'll offer it they said there
was a list of topics see these are the
some of the tricks that the mainstream
media plays it was really interesting
there was a whole Litany of topics they
said this is what they would like to
talk to you about I forget what it was
it was something related to China policy
which you know I I believe that the US
needs to declare independence from China
they gave a couple of others but I
specifically remember that being one of
them and then you go on the set and what
do you know is they've pulled a
airlifted quotes from my speech at the
NRA meeting with their own commentary as
the wraparound as the leading into the
interview when they have purposefully
given me it's not like they didn't think
about it or they said we're not going to
tell you what we're going to talk about
said this is exactly what we're going to
talk about a litany for a you know
relatively new presidential candidate
first time on their show here's a Litany
of what we're going to talk about and it
was not that it was that they decided to
change topics in a in a spontaneous way
it was designed as a trap and so in that
case anyway I gave Don Lemon on air a
history lesson which caused him to it
ended up being a big favor for me on the
campaign lose his mind you know the
earpiece that he had in he was screaming
at the people who were the producers in
his ears saying it was distracting him
as was engaged in this debate with me it
was such an uncomfortable moment for
everybody involved including anybody
watching it that it ended up being the
New York Times reported the next couple
of days later the Catalyst for Don Lemon
actually getting fired by CNN and so I
had a few interactions like that that
that started to kind of increase the
steam behind people at least paying
attention to my candidacy and and things
went on from there so let me ask you
about well let me ask you about that so
I want to know what other moments went
viral right so that's that's a really
interesting one because one of the well
there's two things about that that I
find particularly interesting the first
is the way that these mainstream Legacy
Media journalists set up the people that
they're interviewing so the game seems
to be and this has happened to me many
many times the game is very
straightforward the game is we will poke
and prod at you with illin informed but
provocative opinions hoping that by
being as a annoying as possible you will
say something fatally stupid demolish
your reputation online and elevate my
reputation the journalist as an
investigator who can then walk away with
like your scalp so to speak on his belt
now that's that's a and so that's the
kind of interview you face where every
single word the interviewer utters is a
verbal
trap okay but my my experience has been
that if you keep your head during that
interchange and you don't play the game
so you don't say anything stupid you
don't apologize you don't get upset that
that can turn viciously viciously in
your favor and you said okay and so
that's interesting so I'd like to see
your thoughts on that and then I'd also
like to know what other things you did
in the alternative media and direct to
Consumer direct to voter model that also
went viral you know some of that's
chance right if you put out 50 Clips
you're going to get a Pito distribution
of effect but did you start to see a
pattern for the clips that you got okay
so let's let's unwrap that let's start
with the gacha journalism first of all
well well the gacha journalism so my
strategy ended up being it wasn't really
a strategy I think it's sort of how I'm
wired first was to do exactly what you
said just rationally process exactly
what they're telling you and respond
rationally as the person on the other
side increasingly loses their mind CU
you're not doing what they expected or
planned or set you up to do which in
turn I think makes them look I think far
more illogical as a consequence when
they were actually taking the rafan
populist Republican to try to make fry
of them even for their own audience they
end up looking like the less reasonable
ones so I went in The Breakfast Club had
major viral exchange there where a woman
she was pressing me hard on the fact
that I had only ever really had major
accomplishments in the business world
that had never been in public service
with utter unawareness that the last and
I believe successful president of the
United States Donald Trump came with a
very similar background and yeah I think
she was frustrated that I wasn't falling
into her traps and then she ended up
giving a soliloquy about her experience
in sixth grade where she put together a
coalition for lunch money or something
like this which to her own audience
which is a largely left of center
audience broadly panned saying that we
don't want to really hear about your
sixth grade experience we understand
that somebody who has accomplished
things in the business world can at
least have a legitimate case for having
his ideas heard this is coming from the
left Don Lemons firing I had an exchange
with Chuck Todd where he said are you
how can you have the level of certainty
that there are two genders and I
explained in the manner of somebody who
happens to have a biology degree which I
I don't usually like
using you don't need a biology degree to
know something about biology you don't
need to have a Harvard degree to be able
to have standing to speak on a subject
of science but I have those things and
for an audience that particularly
wrongfully elevates their attachment of
value to those degrees I decided to use
that in my favor and broke down for him
here's what two X chromosomes mean
here's what an X and A Y chromosome mean
and that exchange went viral as well and
I think this one was more by chance but
he quickly was was no longer on the air
at Meet the Press which was his made
show shortly after I had done the same
thing with Don Lemon shortly after we
had exchanges like that at The Breakfast
Club and then you think about the
exchanges that I had on social media
that ended up being the one ones that
really caught the public imagination
were again interactions that I had in
the field let's call it at the Iowa
State Fair at other places where we had
protesters or people who were
purposefully trying to either disrupt my
events or others I got to give them
credit who were respectful but sharply
disagreed with what I had to say and
approached me in one-off conversations
that weren't performative but they were
real conversations authentic
conversations between people who deeply
disagreed on subject matter and so if
I'm to put those together both between
the corporate media realm as well as in
the in the let's just say real world
translated social media digital realm
that's the through line that I would
draw is the thing that really ended up
creating not just oneoff but this ended
up being a series of probably three four
months in there of repeated verality of
interactions that were nothing more than
the kind of interactions that I've been
having for all of my adult life which I
enjoy which I thrive on you know think
about the people I went to school with
at places like Harvard or Yale
predominantly had political views that
were different from mine I leaned
libertarian most of them lean liberal
some of them are even friends of mine
and remain friends of mine to this day
authentic heated but Earnest exchanges
and some cases the person on the other
side wasn't necessarily authentic in
their motives take the Don Lemon but you
treat them as though they are and then
they self- imilate in front of you that
ended up really lifting up the
campaign in this case now far earlier
than we expected okay because when we
saw me not lifting up off the ground I
think I calibrated myself to saying okay
this is going to be a long haul it's
going to be only after the debates begin
and let me at least try to qualify for
those debates let me at least make that
table Stakes that I would qualify for
the debates and then after that it would
be a steady buildup instead something
started happening where when I took the
talk to everyone's strategy leftwing
media rightwing media corporate media
podcasts and interactions we actually
saw a pickup that was then far earlier
than I expected after I had recalibrated
my own expectations and that created new
problems of its own actually
[Music]